# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? 

    You could add 9 options instead of 6. You could make more options appear when someone gets an answer wrong instad of less, and shuffle them up.

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM?

    An object-oriented represenation of a webpage. 

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML?

    The DOM is a tree model to represent than HTML (or other web pages). HTML is one language in which a page can be written. 

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?

    All conent on page loaded.

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page? 

    Page loads all squares to default purple color, score set to 0, no color code displayed, buttons don't work. 

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript? 
 
    HTML is responsilbe for all the text, as well as the buttons, hyperlinks to CSS and JS files, and DIV sections. 

    CSS is determines the sizes, shapes, and colors of the squares and DIV sections. It also generates the font and size of the text. It generates margin and padding. 

    The JavaScript generates which colored squares appear where, what happens when a square is incorrecntly picked, what happens when a square is correcrtly picked, which squares are correct and incorrect, which question will be generated, the number of squares that show up when the "easy" and "hard" buttons are clicked, as well as the current score. 


    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? 

   Square disappear, the header changes color.  

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? 

        Div.Square, h1.span, div.id.scoreDisplay, div.span.message, div.button.reset


    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page? 

    The RGB changes on the div.squares. The text changes in the header, message, and score, as well as the "Play Again?/New Colors" button.

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block?

        It compares the clicked color to the picked (correct) color. If they are different, then the block changes colors to blend with the background. The message block says "Try Again." It removes 1 point from the score. 
    

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? 

         If the clicked color and picked color are the same, then all squares change to the clickedColor. The message block changes to say "Correct!" and the reset button changes to "Play Again?". It also displays the name of the color. It adds 5 points to the score. 

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"?
        
        It generates the set number of squares (3 or 6), with random colors, one of them being the new "picked color." 

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 

        The color and the text in this instance. In general, pretty much all of them.

        v.  How does score keeping work? 

        When an incorrect square is clicked (the one that does not equal the picked square), a function deducts one point from the number next to the score. When correctly picked, it adds 5. As the score is changed, it is stored locally to the user's server. 

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? 

        The score is saved to the local server. 

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        Okay!

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now? 

        It's only stored on the page per session, and resets every time the window is closed and reopened. 

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes? 

        If the picked color matched the clicked color, the name of the RGB code at the top is printed in place of the code. The background color of the heading changes to match the picked color. 

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? 

        It can do multiple things at once and isn't trying to process every request one at a time. 

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 

        It goes and retrives the name of the color associated with the code from a URL, and then plugs in the name from said URL into the HTML. 

        xii.  What does it do? 

        It goes and retrives the name of the color associated with the code from a URL, and then plugs in the name from said URL into the HTML. 

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch? 

        Ajax

        xiv.  Why use one over the other? 

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

Okay!

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Observation Skills, Deal with Uncertainty, and Problem Solving. It required me to take a look at the cause and effect caused by each new function, and figure out what did what. I had never encountered any of these before, and needed to do my own research and problem solving to make sense of any of it.

7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript